# Importing Data
EPANET-UI can import a network layout and its associated data from files generated by GIS or CAD software as well as from plain text files. To do so select the ***File*** tab on the Menu Bar and then select ***Import*** from the list of options that appears.

## Importing From GIS Files
To import network data from GIS shapefiles, select <imgt images/shp32.png> ***GIS Shapefile*** from the list of import options that appears. A ***ShapeFile Importer*** dialog will appear that takes you through the steps of adding the contents of a Links shapefile and a Nodes shapefile to your project.  

## Importing From CAD Files
To import a network layout from a CAD file, select <imgt images/dxf32.png> ***CAD DXF File*** from the list of import options that appears. A ***DXF File Importer*** dialog will appear that takes you through the steps of adding selected layers from a DXF file into the project. The DXF reader only extracts link geometry from the file and adds nodes where their endpoints join. Attributes are not read but are assigned default values instead.

## Importing From CSV Text Files
To import network data from a text file, select <imgt images/txt32.png> ***CSV Text File*** from the list of import options that appears. A ***CSV File Importer*** dialog will appear that takes you through the steps of importing node and link data from plain text files that use a comma as a separator between data fields and whose first line contains data field names.

<p>If adding new nodes to a project, the Node CSV file must contain X and Y coordinates with ID names being optional. If modifying existing nodes then valid ID names must be supplied with coordinate data being optional.</p>

<p>If adding new pipes to a project, then the Pipe CSV file must contain the names of each pipe's start and end nodes with the pipe's ID name being optional. If modifying existing pipes, then valid pipe ID names must be supplied with start and end nodes being optional.</p>
