# Viewing Simulation Results
The results of a simulation can be viewed directly on the network map as well as in a number of specialized reports selected from the Report button on the Project tab of the Menu panel.

## View Results on the Map
Simulation results can be viewed in color-coded fashion on the network map by selecting a theme and a time period from the ***View*** tab of the Menu Bar as shown below. You can also animate the map display over time by clicking the <b>Animate</b> button.

<imgw images/ViewMapTheme.png>  

Click the Legend icons to modify the colors used to display a theme using the <u>[Map Legend]</u> editor. Selected results can also be viewed on the map when a *Map Query* is requested (see <u>[Submitting a Map Query]</u>).

## View Specialized Reports
Different types of specialized reports can be generated by selecting <b>Project > Report</b> from the Menu Bar. Each report will be shown in the <b>Analysis Results</b> form. It contains a menu button with options to save the report to the clipboard or to a file.

### Status Report
<p>
The EPANET solver writes all error and warning messages generated during an analysis to a Status Report. Additional information on when network objects change status will be written to the report if the <i>Status Report</i> option in the project's <u>[Hydraulic Options]</u> was set to `NORMAL`. When set to `FULL`, the report also includes convergence information from each trial of each time period's  hydraulic analysis.
</p>
<imgl images/StatusReport.png><br>
<p>
A Normal or Full report also includes tables listing the components of the overall flow and water quality mass balance for the network. The reported Flow and Mass Ratios indicate how close to a perfect balance of 1.0 was achieved.
</p>
<imgl images/FlowMassBalance.png>

### Energy Report
<imgl images/EnergyBalance.png><br>
<p>
The Energy Balance Report presents a visual breakdown of the energy inputs and outputs to the pipe network. It computes the energy contained in a flowing stream of water over a period of one hour as <i>`kWH = H x Q / 5310`</i> where *H* is head in feet and *Q* is flow in gpm. For the energy in flows entering or leaving the network from nodes, *H* is the hydraulic head at the node.  For energy added by pump flows, *H* is the head added by the pump. For energy lost to friction in pipe and valve links *H* is the head loss across the link.
</p>
<p>
The report is useful for conducting energy audits and evaluating system efficiency and resilience. To that end the report also lists a number of energy-based performance metrics that have been proposed in the literature:
- *Efficiency Index*: the ratio of energy outflow in consumer demands to the energy supplied to the system.
- *Friction Loss Index*: the ratio of energy lost to pipe friction and valve losses to the energy supplied to the system.
- *Leakage Loss Index*: the ratio of energy outflow in pipe leakage to the energy supplied to the system.
- *Excess Supply Index*: the ratio of the energy supplied to the system to the energy needed to meet consumer demands at some minimum pressure target.
- *Excess Usage Index*: the ratio of the energy outflow in consumer demands to that needed to meet all demand at some minimum pressure target.
The pressure target used in the last two metrics is the *Service Pressure* specified in the project's <u>[Demand Options]</u>.
</p>

NOTE:
The report may not be meaningful for a Demand Driven Analysis if some nodes have negative heads since the energy in their demand flow will be counted as inflow rather than outflow. This anomaly will not occur if a Pressure Driven Analysis is made.

### Pumping Report
<imgl images/PumpingReport.png><br>
<p>
The Pumping Report lists the percent of time each pump in the network is utilized, its average efficiency and energy consumption, and its cost to run over the simulation duration. Also listed is the total energy cost per day as well as any peaking demand charge incurred. Clicking the header on any column will sort the entries in that column.
</p> 

### System Flow Report
<imgl images/SystemFlowReport.png> <br>
<p>
The System Flow Report displays the total volume of water produced, consumed, and stored in the network for each hour of a simulation. These results can be viewed in both a chart and a table. The report's menu gives you the choice of plotting Time of Day instead of Elapsed Time on the Time axis.
</p>

### Time Series Report
<p>
The Time Series Report shows how the values of a computed result for a node, link, or the entire system varies over time. Up to six data series can be displayed on the same chart or table.
</p>
<p>
When a Time Series Report is first selected, a <b>Time Series Selector</b> panel will appear above the Map Legend. This panel is used to add, edit and delete data series to the report. Clicking its <b>Add</b> or <b>Edit</b> buttons will bring up a second page of the panel where you select the object (node, link or system) and its parameter to report. While on that page, clicking the map on a specific node or link will select it for the report.
</p>
<imgl images/TimeSeriesSelector.png> <imgl images/TimeSeriesSelector2.png><br>
<p>
 Clicking the <ui2>Accept</ui2> button will include your selected data series in the report and return to the main page of the Selector panel. Here you can also choose to plot Time of Day on the Time axis instead of Elapsed Time. When you click the <ui2>View</ui2> button the Analysis Results form will appear with a chart or table displayed on it.
</p>
<imgl images/TimeSeriesReport.png><br>
<p>
The report's menu contains the following options in addition to the standard Copy and Save commands:
- *Series Data* - hides the report form and displays the Time Series Selector panel again where you can change the data to be viewed
- *Chart Settings* - displays a <b>Chart Display Options</b> dialog where you can customize the chart's appearance.
</p>

### Variability Report
<imgl images/PercentilePlot.png><br>
<p>
The Variability Report displays the range of values for a selected parameter throughout the network at each instance of time. This range is represented by a lower percentile value, a mid percentile range, and an upper percentile value for the parameter in each time period. The choice of parameter and percentile values to plot is made from the <b>Percentile Plot Selector</b> panel that appears when the report is first selected or when the <b>Change Settings</b> option is selected from the report's menu. For a single period analysis, the full cumulative distribution of the parameter across the entire network is displayed.
</p>

### Hydraulic Profile Plot
<imgr images/profileSelector.png>
<p>
The Hydraulic Profile Plot visualizes the change in hydraulic grade line across a path of connected links. When this reporting option is selected a <b>Profile Plot Selector</b> panel will appear above the Map Legend. It is used to select the start and end nodes of the profile path. Clicking the <kbd>+</kbd> buttons next to the <i>Start Node</i> and <i>End Node</i> edit boxes will select whatever node is currently selected on the network map.
Pressing the <ui2>View</ui2> button will display the profile plot for the current time period selected on the <b>View</b> menu tab.
</p>
<p>
The report's menu allows you to toggle the display of node IDs and the ground elevation on the plot. Changing the time period using the Time Slider control on the <b>View</b> tab of the Menu Bar will update the plot accordingly.
</p>
<imgl images/ProfileReport.png><br>

### Node Results Table
<imgl images/NetworkNodeReport.png>
<p>
This report lists the computed value of selected parameters in a tabular format for all network nodes (junctions, tanks, and reservoirs) at whatever time period is selected with the Time Slider control on the <b>View</b> tab of the Menu Bar. You can sort the table by a particular parameter by clicking its column heading. You can also select what parameters to view and add filters to the table by selecting the <b>Add Filters</b> command from the report's menu.
</p>
<p>
<imgl images/NodeReportFilters.png><br>
</p>

### Link Results Table
This table is a complement to the Node Results Table, except that it displays results for all links (pipes, pumps and valves) in the network. The same menu options as with the Node Results Table apply as does using the Time Slider on the Menu Bar's <b>View</b> tab to view results in different time periods.

### Calibration Report
The Calibration Report compares simulated values of a parameter with values measured at particular nodes within the pipe network. The report contains four tabbed pages whose contents are as follows:
- The **Calibration Data** page is used to select a choice of parameter and to provide measured values of it at specific loctions and times. These data are entered into a table, with separate columns for node ID, measurement time, and measured value. The table can be loaded with data, in the same format, residing in a text file as well as be saved to a file.
<imgl images/CalibReport1.png><br>
- The **Time Series Plot** page plots both computed and measured parameter values versus time for each measurement location.
<imgl images/CalibReport2.png><br>

- The **Correlation Plot** page is a scatter plot of measured and computed parameter values for all locations and time periods on the same graph.

- The **Error Statistics** page lists the observed and computed mean parameter values at each location along with the mean error between the two.
